# Leave-one-out requests

Researchers may request custom LNO summary statistics that are not readily available for download on [figshare](https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/scz2022/19426775). <br>
In general, the requesting researcher should compile a list of samples to be excluded in this [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rdb5Dzvls87X9UJ-UmUVpGWTPt6Rv3h25JFjjhO3Ei0/edit?gid=0#gid=0) based on the instructions in [this Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z3eNTOAsybHXeWLqsiy-jCWAMqA8_4ZD2UEziJao2Wo/edit?tab=t.0).

## Instructions
1. Open this google sheet: [`LNO_PGC3_Datasets_vt_09.08.18`](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rdb5Dzvls87X9UJ-UmUVpGWTPt6Rv3h25JFjjhO3Ei0/edit?gid=0#gid=0). This contains two sheets describing the 90 studies in the wave 3 meta-analysis. Make a local copy of this document.
2. Fill out the name and email associated with this request in the “Request Info” sheet. ou Additionally please answer whether or not you would like to have samples scored and any additional comments. 
3. Select studies that you wish to have included in the meta-analysis by deleting rows from the “include” sheet. All remaining rows in the "include” sheet will be meta-analyzed.
4. Select which studies you would like to have standard polygenic risk scores generated for. Do this by deleting rows in the “score” sheet that you do not want scored. All remaining rows in the “score” sheet will be scored using the meta-analysis of studies in the “include” sheet.
5. If you are using Google Sheets, you can check the “Request summary” sheet to see if it matches your expectations. It contains sample sizes and the number of studies automatically calculated from the other sheets. (Note: unfortunately, these calculations don’t translate when downloaded as an Excel spreadsheet)
6. Send this back to the PGC data access committee (DAC) representative/Stage 1 SCZ analysis: pgc.stage1.scz@gmail.com  

## Data return
All results will be shared back via the PGC DAC account on SURFsnellius. You will need an account on Snellius. You can fill out the request form at the [SCZ DATA ACCESS PORTAL](https://pgcdataaccess.formstack.com/forms/pgc_data_access_scz). Make sure that the field *"Snellius username"* is correctly filled out. <br> Additionally, under the section *"Select the data package you are requesting"*, check the box next to *"Summary statistics only wave 3 meta-analysis, leave one out"*. <br> This will ensure that you are granted the correct permissions on the return files.

At a minimum we provide: <br>
- Summary statistics from the leave-n-out meta-analysis  <br>
    - These follow the daner file format.  <br>
- Clumped summary statistics to be used for scoring analyses.  <br>
- By request also Manhattan plots, regions plots, forest plots, QQ plots, etc.  <br>

If specified above, we provide standard polygenic risk scores. This includes:
1. Scores as generated by PLINK with the sum modifier at ten different p-value thresholds (see details link below).
2. An analysis of how well scores are performing at various thresholds.

Details for the output format can be found in the “Ricopili polygenic risk score output files” section of the [“Instruction for polygenic risk scoring (PRS) using RICOPILI”](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10jvLvnrPIz9zRKlRfMeW8HsHDxEIbs84yP3Ugjhj31E/edit?tab=t.0) document.
